## Troubleshooting secondary Disks / USB drive access 

If you have any second drives that you are unable to open we’re going to fix that now if you have no issues reading or writing to your drive(s) you can skip this. 
Open the ‘Konsole’ (Terminal) this is a command line interface, often shortened to "CLI". This powerful tool can quickly command the operating system and various programs / tasks – although perhaps confusing at first - is very fast and efficient for doing a variety of tasks – you’ll likely grow to love it. Most things can be done without the Konsole but it’s just super fast and easy. 

You don’t need to understand everything going on here ar first but I’ll do my best to briefly explain the commands and steps of everything.

Open the application launcher and search of Konsole or press down ctrl + Alt + T at the same time. You can right click the program in the Applications Bar and 
click ‘Pin’ so it’s readily available to be launched from your desktop.

And here we are ! 

Firstly we need to identify where the physical hard disk is linked in the system. 

To do this in the file browser ( Dolphin ) right click on the drive you can’t write on and select properties under ‘Mounted From:’ 
you’ll see something like this “/media/redacted/Data” we’ll need this in a moment and the location written after ‘Mounted To:’, 

so write it down or search for “text” in the application Launcher and open the ‘Kate’ text editor which will appear to paste them into.
Because we’re here let’s check the drive for errors first.

In the Terminal enter the following (note you may copy and paste it using the right click menu on highlighted text and then right click into the console window and select paste 
– this saves a lot of time – I keep a list of common commands I use on my desktop in a text file for quick access. )

First we need to unmount the second drive so we can take a look at it.
replace the part after “umount” with the ‘Mounted To:’ location we found earlier.

	`sudo unmount /dev/sda1`


You’ll be prompted to enter your password again, this is because sudo in front of a command is giving it elevated permissions to do otherwise blocked commands.
Now the drive is unmounted let’s check the disk for errors (for windows drives use sudo ntfsfix /dev/sda1 ( again change the part after ntfsfix depending on the 
location we found earlier ).

	`sudo fsck -f /dev/sda1`

changing the above line to 

	`sudo fsck -a /dev/sda1` 

will attempt to auto fix any errors (again, use ntfsfix for NTFS).

Anyway, the main thing we need to do here is gain permission over the drive so we can use it properly. Let’s remount the drive. 
You can also do this in the command line but I think it’s easier to just open the file explorer ‘Dolphin’ from the Applications Bar and click on the drive again.

In the following change “redacted:redacted” to your own username and the drive location starting with “/” to the one we found earlier in the hard disks properties
under ‘Mounted From:’ 

	`sudo chown -R redacted:redacted /media/redacted/Data`

Finally we should now have control over the drive, very handy troubleshooting in the case you run into any difficulties with encrypted / NTFS drives. 
NTFS support is coming properly in an upcoming kernel (5.15 -- now released!) so if you do need to use NTFS ( Windows) drives a lot it’ll be more compatible soon! 

All of that might have seemed complicated but in reality to operate those tasks from a graphical interface after finding the right program from the internet 
would be cumbersome and in general this is not something you’re going to have to do often if ever – this information is here to help troubleshoot potential 
roadblocks you may run into.

